# appsyncmasterclass-backend

## 4.1 Setup backend project

Setup a GitHub repo.

`npm init -y`

`npm install --save-dev serverless/@v2.4.0` (because
`serverless-iam-roles-per-function` is broken after sls 2.4.0, remove carets).

Create a serverless project: `npm run sls -- create -t aws-nodejs`.

Install serverless-appsync-plugin: `npm i -D serverless-appsync-plugin`. It
allows to configure our AppSync api by adding a section to `serverless.yml` file
with:

```yml
custom:
  appSync:
```

Create a separate `serverless.appsync-api.yml` file for AppSync configuration.
Reference it in the main `serverless.yml` file with:

```yml
custom:
  appSync:
    - ${file(serverless.appsync-api.yml)}
```

In `serverless.yml`, exclude `package.json` files from being bundled.

```yml
package:
  exclude:
    - package-lock.json
    - package.json
```

Begin to configure the the file
[serverless.appsync-api.yml](./serverless.appsync-api.yml) (take a look).

## 4.2 Design the GraphQL schema

[4.2] Create the file [schema.api.gaphql](./schema.api.graphql). (Take a look at
the notes there).

It is very much like a TS file with types.

Identify and implement the schema; Queries, Mutations, types and interfaces that
will be used in the system.

Use interface to solidify the common properties between types (MyProfile vs
OtherProfile).

## 4.3 Configure Cognito User Pool

_(4.3.0)_ Before the GraphQL schema can be deployed, we need to create a AWS
Cognito User Pool and associate it with our AppSync API configuration. This is
done under `resources` section of [serverless.yml](./serverless.yml):

```yml
resources:
  Resources:
    CognitoUserPool:
```

(_4.3.1_) We need the CognitoUserPoolId of the CognitoUserPool as a cloud
formation output.

```yml
Outputs:
  CognitoUserPoolId:
    Value: !Ref CognitoUserPool
```

_(4.3.2)_ After configuring the Cognito User Pool, we need to configure the
AppSync API to use it ([schema.api.gaphql](./schema.api.graphql)).

```yml
name: appsyncmasterclass
schema: schema.api.graphql
# configure the AppSync API to use the cognito user pool
authenticationType: AMAZON_COGNITO_USER_POOLS
userPoolConfig:
  awsRegion: eu-west-1
  defaultAction: ALLOW
  userPoolId: !Ref CognitoUserPool
```

_(4.3.4)_ Now it is time to deploy. You need to have a AWSAccessKeyId and
AWSSecretKey to configure serverless framework to deploy.

```text
# rootkey.csv file
AWSAccessKeyId=*****
AWSSecretKey=***
```

There are a few ways to
[configure serverless with aws creds](https://www.serverless.com/framework/docs/providers/aws/guide/credentials#create-an-iam-user-and-access-key).
I used the below (mind that `--` passes args to the package.json script).

```bash
npm run sls -- config credentials \
  --provider aws \
  --key **** \
  --secret ***
```

Then deploy with `npm run deploy`. In _AWS console / Cognito_ we find
`appsyncmasterclass` as defined in
[serverless.appsync-api.yml](./serverless.appsync-api.yml)

_(4.3.5)_ We need to be logged in with Cognito to test AppSync queries. Create a
cognito user by hand at _CognitoUserPool / Users and Groups_. (I used my email).

We also need to configure a application client at _CognitoUserPool / App
clients_ to be able to interact with the Cognito User Pool. We do this by adding
a resource to [serverless.yml](./serverless.yml) (as opposed to doing it by hand
at AWS Console):

```yml
resources:
  Resources:
    CognitoUserPool: ##
    WebUserPoolClient:
```

_(4.3.6)_ At AWS AppSync, _Login via Cognito User Pools_ and test out some
queries.

## 4.4 Save user profile on PostConfirmation

- Capture the new user that gets created in Cognito.

- Save the user in a DynamoDB table:
  - (use a lambda trigger at _CognitoUserPool / Triggers_). After a user is
    confirmed, send a message to a lambda function, and that function can save
    the user in the DynamoDB table.
- That will allow us to use AppSync query and mutations

_(4.4.0)_ Create a DynamoDB table to store user profiles

```yml
resources:
  Resources:
    UsersTable:
    CognitoUserPool: ##
    WebUserPoolClient: ##
```

> Convention: _(4.4.0.1)_ Environment is dev, unless we pass in a stage override
> with `npm run sls -- -s prod`
>
> ```yml
> custom:
>   # Environment is dev, unless we pass in a stage override
>   stage: ${opt:stage, self:provider.stage}
>   appSync:
>     - ${file(serverless.appsync-api.yml)}
> ```

_(4.4.1)_ Add a functions block for the lambda trigger function

The function needs to know the name of the UsersTable, which is generated by
CloudFormation.

_(4.4.2)_ Install `npm i -D serverless-iam-roles-per-function` , which allows
custom permissions per function. The function needs the permission to write to
the UsersTable. We do not want a global `iamRoleStatements:` under `provider:` ,
we just want permission for this function. We use
`npm i -D serverless-iam-roles-per-function` to do this.

```yml
confirmUserSignup:
  handler: functions/confirm-user-signup.handler
  # name of the UsersTable fn is accessing
  environment:
    USERS_TABLE: !Ref UsersTable
  # custom permission for the function
  iamRoleStatements:
    - Effect: Allow
      Action:
        - dynamodb:PutItem
      Resource: !GetAtt UsersTable.Arn
```

_(4.4.3)_ Configure Cognito to call the above lambda trigger function when a new
user is registered. We can't use the lambda function's name, because that's
something local to serverless framework. Instead we figure out the logical id
sls generates for the lambda function, by using `npm run sls -- package`. Which
generates cloudformation template under .serverless folder. There look for
`ConfirmUserSignupLambdaFunction`

```yml
CognitoUserPool:
  Type: AWS::Cognito::UserPool
  Properties:
    LambdaConfig:
    PostConfirmation: !GetAtt ConfirmUserSignupLambdaFunction
```

_(4.4.4)_ We also need to give Cognito additional permissions to call the lambda
function, by default it doesn't have any. The below grants CognitoUserPool the
lambda:invokeFunction permission for ConfirmUserSignupLambdaFunction.

```yml
UserPoolInvokeConfirmUserSignupLambdaPermission:
  Type: AWS::Lambda::Permission
  Properties:
    Action: lambda:invokeFunction
    FunctionName: !Ref ConfirmUserSignupLambdaFunction
    Principal: cognito-idp.amazonaws.com
    SourceArn: !GetAtt CognitoUserPool.Arn
```

_(4.4.5)_ Now we add the lambda function
[./functions/confirm-user-signup.js](./functions/confirm-user-signup.js)
